Right to be forgotten:

As far as I'm concerned, there is a difference between public record and the information that is being highlighted in media because no one will know everything of a public record but highlighted information in the media is more accessible to a lot of people. For example, there might be 327 criminals' names listed on a public record but we might only know 32 of them through newspaper. So some information exists in public record doesn't mean that there is an obligation to deliver this piece of information to you. There is also difference between what a person has done and how this behavior is portrayed socially. The Podcast mentioned "but he really killed someone...should I know if this person killed someone?" However, in our complicated, even killing can be portrayed so variously: a war hero in one country can be honored by killing people from the enemy country and a war criminal in another country. Closer in our life, someone can commit one thing and plea guilty to another. Even the court might make mistaken judgement with limited evidence, and even the bad guy with better lawyers could reverse the truth.

I think this discussion is closely related to the role of journalism. Public record should be actually available to everyone if he/she is actually concerned (like the example of hiring someone with record around their children), there is access to get the data on their own. But media amplifies things, creates highlight on selective topics. Then this information will no longer be *just data*, but they become *opinions* from a certain newspaper, editor, reporter.

The End of Privacy As We Know it?

Clearly, technologies and system like ClearView is very productive from a law enforcement perspective to solve cases. With a very detailed, enormous databases of people's faces, I can imagine how easy it would be to track down criminals. As for the concern, the power of ClearView is itself a risk of losing privacy or being used by bad guys. This discussion reminds me of the issue of gun control. It is super useful for the police or other enforcement personal to be in control when they are against lawbreakers. However, we're witnessing the risks of guns in real life. So like what's in the podcast, for the giants in silicon Valley, the technology exists a long while ago, but it's so easy to be used in bad ways, including in the hands of law enforcement personal (like the police) which the technology was designed for. Not only might the technology be leaked to normal people and be abused, it can also be abused by the professional personal, like the US police right now. So I think, as the nature of such technology being so powerful, we need really serious regulation for its application as well. Probably more serious than everything. 
