At the beginning of the speech, Zuboff heard from the students and specifically noted twice on ‘revolution’. In my own words, Surveillance Capitalism is an on-going revolution, taking the form of industrialized capitalist revolution but further developing it in an age of information and digitalizing everything about us human. Instead of nature, which has already been overly excavated, Bourgeoisie now seek the virgin wood in the wide nature and that is human as the last standing free material. Our lifestyle patterns, thoughts, intellectual production are now being excavated as behavioral data, and eventually we are being moderated. If business used to be work like selling shoes by marketing the cheap price and good quality, in this new capitalism mode, it will be selling shoes by predicting and moderating so that the customers would eventually end up buying no matter what.

However, it is right that Zuboff said we shouldn’t take this - informative elements of ourselves being illegitimately dispossessed - for granted. The counterargument to “don’t be afraid if you have nothing to hide” is that everyone has things to hide, to protect its privacy and that is what defines an individual. The presumption of the “nothing to hide” statement lies in that people supposedly can share everything with one another. It is the irony that this presumptive sophistry is almost utopian-ly communist. Unfortunately, class does exist that we are the lower-class “users”, tech corporations are the upper class. In Zuboff’s word, “they herd us” for the sake of profit.

In the Q&A session, Zuboff said she believed in an alternative way, a system of information capitalism that is healthy, for us not just about us, and is truly aligned with the need of the population. And I pin my concerns here. The information capitalism in-progress is growing within the spectrum of existing capitalist globe, with its existing issues. Without resolving the already existing dilemma about the environment, about the exhaustion of labor, or about the confrontation between different ideologies, the chance of finding or forming a competitive solution is so thin, despite the emergency to do so. How prepared are we in attempts of forming a counter-party of existing surveillance capitalism? Will we form a surveillance communism and enter an information Cold War? Zuboff said google started out of the heat of emergency. I believe we first need some solution of emergency and work on an organic system in real patience.
