The first example I think about is the stock market and the behavior of buying and selling stocks. Interested buyer go to the stock hall, they each take a PC and study the data of the past: how much has risen and how much has fallen, which company's stocks look good or bad. And then they make decisions based on the data and try to predict the future, hoping they would win a bunch.

The second example is advertisement. The important data to attract people to buy a certain billboard, tv time or somewhere on the internet is that how many people would view the ad, how many hits would ad receive. So researchers will study the past data of users' behavior, and then they hope to predict the future of the similar behavior. Afterwards, they can sell this prediction to businessmen.

The third example is global warming analysis. Researcher use a huge amount of data about the weather, sea level, etc. to predict the level of global warming and what it bring to human race in the future.

Reflection on individual fate

In the finale of Minority Report, Anderton said to Witwer, "Better keep your eyes open, It might happen to you at any time." Anderton once wanted to find the minority report hoping that there would be an alternative future for him. However, after he found out all three reports, there are no majority report nor minority one. In the end, Anderton chose to act on according to the third report; the entire situation has thus become a self-fulfilling prophecy.

It is unclear what Anderton meant by "what" might happen to Witwer. The information predicted by the precogs are indeed processed: first by the computer to calculate the likeliness between two, second by Anderton who read the report. When three separate reports are generated by an algorithm, some bias was created to believe what should be the "ultimate fate" and what should be the "individual fate". In the end, Anderton did not have any choice with the information he knows: knowing was once intended to help make choices. But in the story, knowing the prediction means no choice but to fulfill the prophecy.

And when Anderton talked to Witwer, he is talking to all the readers that their individual fate might encounter something like this. Predictions are not made for telling, but made for pushing something to happen. 
